hello everyone and welcome to this
week's extend script tutorial in this
one I'm going to be showing you how to
make a script that will read all the
effects inside of After Effects that you
have installed it's got a nice UI with
the drop-down that will display the
names of all of the effects you have
installed and if you select any one of
them it will update the drop down below
which has all the match names so of
course this is going to be a script for
After Effects so let's go ahead and hop
right in by create a new JavaScript file
and zooming in just a little bit so
first let's start off with our user
interface it's basically just a window
with two groups with all these elements
contained in them so create a variable
called main window equal to a new window
and the first parameter is the type of
window which will make a palette window
then the second parameter is the name of
it which we'll call read all installed
effects and then we need the size
parameters which we'll set to undefined
so that it automatically updates it and
then I'm going to grab my main window
object and change the orientation to
column so that all of the groups full of
elements we put in and go from top to
bottom then it will create the two
groups first we'll call one name group
which will contain this name text and
then the names of all the effects so
we'll set this equal to our main window
we're going to add a group undefined
size and position parameters and we're
just gonna name this main group then
it's about the elements go from the left
to right I'm going to set the
orientation of our name group equal to
row and then we need to create this
static text that says name and then the
drop-down that's going to contain all
this stuff now you'll also notice how
nicely aligned these are both of the
texts have the same size and the
dropdowns have the same size we're going
to hand code in what the sizes are that
way we can force them to be the same
size and look nice so if we're gonna
create a variable called name text and
we'll set this equal to our name group
and we're gonna add some static text
undefined size and then we're gonna have
the text same name and then down below
we'll grab our name text outside
and define it here that way we'd have to
put in the position or anything as well
so we'll just set the size to be
something like 80 by 25 and then we'll
move on to create this drop-down will
save our name dd4 name drop-down is
equal to our name group and we're gonna
add a drop-down list undefined
parameters and what we're gonna do is
actually create a function that's going
to retrieve all of these and the name of
that function is going to be get all
effect names and that function is gonna
return an array of all the names and
this parameters right here requires an
array of strings which is exactly what
this function is gonna give us and then
also we want it to be default have a
certain element selected so we'll set
the name DD dot selection equal to zero
alright and now let's go ahead and just
copy and paste this down below and what
we're gonna do now is a little trick to
create the exact same group but with the
mash name rather than the regular name
so I'm going to make sure I have the
second pasted group selected in the find
and replace window we're gonna search
for anything with the name name we're
going to change it replace it with match
name and then under the search way we're
going to make sure it's the current
selection this bit here and then click
on replace all this will create the same
exact group but with some unique names
referring to the mash names
and then we're also going to want to
update this function here get all effect
names to get all effects match names
we're gonna make a secondary function
that only gets the mash names rather
than the display name so now down below
we'll grab our main window and Center it
and then we'll grab our main window
again and show it close this UI make
sure we're connected to after-effects
and launch it you can see now things are
almost there it looks like we're needing
to specify the sizes of the dropdowns
the dropdowns have different sizes as
well as update the text here which just
says name it should say match name so
I'll change this to stay match name and
then the drop-down lists need to have
the same size so say a match
named didi sighs and we'll give them
something like 220 pixels by 25 and then
I'll copy and paste that and change this
just to be the name didi now when we
launched it we've got our UI looking
very nice we have our name all of the
list of names you'll notice that this is
actually populated with a bunch of names
that's because it's actually running
this code from the previous script so it
still thinks that this function exists
even though I haven't created it yet but
yours should be blank so I should really
look like this we have basically our
name and empty drop-down and our mash
name and an empty drop-down now we need
to undo that and create these functions
for getting the effect names so down
below create a function called gits
all effects names this doesn't require
any parameters or arguments and then
down below that create one called gets
all effect match names now inside of the
after-effects scripting guide you can go
to the application object and see there
is an apt effects which will retrieve an
array containing the following
properties of all of the effects
containing the properties of the display
name the category it's in so like blur
and sharpen color correction and the
match name so we're gonna be using this
to both retrieve and then get all of the
specifics so under the get all effect
names we needed an array to fill it up
with all the names so we'll just say
names is equal to an empty array and
then again remember we want to return an
array full of the names for this
drop-down so we're gonna end up
returning our names and now we need to
fill up this array with all of the
effect names in order to do this we're
going to create a variable called
effects and set this equal to apt off X
and now that's going to all of a sudden
be full of all the effects that they
have installed on the computer in order
to only get the display names we're
going to loop through it by creating a
for loop starting with VAR i is equal to
0 because we're starting with an array
so we need to start at this 0 with index
then for i is less than our x dot length
increment I by one and each time we go
through we want to grab our names array
and push something into it so the first
time what we're going to do is grab
effects and I so what this is gonna do
is the loop through all the effects that
they have installed which is gonna each
time through look at a different object
this object contains things like the
display name and the category and the
mash name so we want to take the display
name and push that as the names so we're
gonna say our effects I dot display name
and the display name is equivalent to
what you see here the actual readable
name inside of After Effects so again
we're just looking through all the
effects and inside of our names array
were just basically each time pushing
through the effects at display name then
I'm gonna copy and paste this into our
get all effect match names and we're
going to change a few things we're gonna
change names to match names and we need
to return the match names and push the
match names and instead of using the
display name we're going to say dot
matching all right so now if we go ahead
and launch the script in after-effects
we should be working fine but you'll
notice that if I click and change the
name say change the effect of fog 3d the
match name is not updating so let's add
an event listener to each of these
dropdowns so whenever you select a new
effect it's going to update for the
other one so down below where we show
our main window I'm going to first grab
our name drop down name DD we're gonna
add an on change function here by saying
unchanged is equal to and not in this
function and inside of this function
here we're just gonna write one line of
code we want to change the selection of
our match name drop down to equal
whatever the name drop down is so if
they change the name drop down update
the other one so that it has the same
effect index as that drop down so I'll
say match name DD selection is equal to
our name DD dot selection but we need to
get the index of the selection because
if you were just to grab the selection
it would give you say fog 3d it wouldn't
give you the number inside of the array
that it is so we need to grab the index
that selection and then down below will
create a non change for the match name
dee dee just saved out unchanged its
equal to a function and this time we're
gonna change the name drop down so say
name DD selection is equal to and it
needs to be equal to our mash name DD
del selection and again the index so we
get the actual integer so now let's go
ahead and run the script and change the
name here to fog 3d you can see the
match name drop down it's going to now
be updating to show us the match name of
the newly selected effect and it
likewise if we change the match name
it's going to update the name drop down
above as well and that's going to do it
for this week's video guys I hope you
enjoyed that's how to create a script
that will read all the effects and match
names of all of the things you have
installed on your version of After
Effects if you enjoyed the video be sure
hit the thumbs up button and hit
subscribe to be notified of new videos
coming out every week you can now also
follow the channel on instagram @ NT
productions IG the link will be in the
description be sure to follow us on
there for behind the scenes content and
updates live about when tutorials are
coming out and what they're about and of
course follow us on github as well where
we release code all the time for free
and work on secret projects and that's
gonna do it for the video thanks again
for watching and we'll see you in the
next one